# Formulating Commit Messages

Development of documentation, specification and code shall be collaborative.  
This includes reviewing artifacts before consolidating them into the shared base. Such review is not just "additional work", but also time critical, because the shared base might change between MergeRequest and MergeCommit.  
Well formulated CommitMessages must support efficiently reviewing the contributed artifact.

This document provides guidance on 
* how to formulate concise and comprehensive headlines
* how to create references on existing documentation like the underlying issue in the commit messages


**Format**
```
    Subject line: short summary (72 characters or less)
    
    Message body: 
    * separated from the subject line by a blank line
    * additional information can be provided here 
    * additional paragraphs can also be added after blank lines
    * bullet points can be used
```

* write the commit message in the imperative: e.g. "Fix bug" not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug". This convention matches with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert
* a properly formed commit subject line should always be able to complete the following sentence: "if applied, this commit will *<subject line here>*.

**Rules for proper message style**
* separate subject from body with a blank line
* do not end the subject line with a dot
* capitalize the subject line and each paragraph
* use the imperative mood in the subject line
* wrap lines at 72 characters
* use the body to explain what and why something has been done. In most cases details about how a change has been made can be left out.

**Information on commit messages**
* describe why a change is being made
* how does it address the issue
* what effects does the change have
* do not assume that reviewers understand what the original problem was
* do not assume the change/code is self-evident/self-documenting
* read the commit message to see if it hints at improved code structure etc.
* describe any limitations of the current code or delivery item
* do not include patch set-specific commands

Good examples for each of the above points can be found [here](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/GitCommitMessages#Information_in_commit_messages).

**References in commit messages**